issue-420: clarify-deprecation-notice-wording (#451)
redhat-documentation/supplementary-style-guide: supplementary_style_guide/style_guidelines/release-notes.adoc

[[deprecated-and-removed-features]]
=== Deprecated and removed features

Documenting the deprecation and removal stages of software features requires careful and precise communication.
Highlight the following stages to users:

* Plan to deprecate
* Deprecate
* Plan to remove
* Remove

When alternatives to or workarounds for deprecated features are available, clearly inform users about them.

==== Referring to releases in deprecation and removal notices
In general, avoid definitive statements about specific releases, release versions, or dates for deprecation or removal.
When possible, use the phrase "is planned for a future release" because it accounts for the possibility of changes to the planned deprecation or removal timeline.

If you must be specific about a release, use provisional language to reflect the fluid nature of development plans and to acknowledge the potential for plans to change.
For example, if you must cite a specific version, rather than stating "<x> will be deprecated in version 4.16", use "It is currently planned for <x> to be deprecated in version 4.16".

> Alternatively, if you must cite a deprecation or removal timeline and you want to avoid citing a specific release number, use a phrase such as "<x> will be deprecated in the next release".

Reviewer: Love this new rewrite! The only thing I'd suggest is to still leave wiggle room in here:

```suggestion
Alternatively, if you must cite a deprecation or removal timeline and you want to avoid citing a specific release number, use a phrase such as "<x> is planned to be deprecated in the next release".
```

Or "planned for deprecation" or whatever is the least awkward wording :smile: Or you could always align it more with the exact wording of line 84 and just replace the 4.16 with "the next release"

Author: Good edit, @bergerhoffer. I'll make the change.

* Plan to remove
* Remove

If available, inform users of alternative capabilities and workarounds. 

> If necessary, you can also refer to a specific release timeline when the deprecation or removal will occur, even though our general rule is to avoid making statements that predict future releases or release dates.

Reviewer 2: This is a solid approach. To be more succinct and stress the importance of caution, consider the following revision:
```suggestion
Avoid predictions about specific releases or release dates.
If necessary, you can mention current plans to deprecate or remove a capability in a specific release. Plans can change.
```

Reviewer 3: +1 this is a great suggestion

Author: Thanks, Rolfe and Sara. Made most of the changes, but left off the last suggested sentence because I think it states the obvious.

* Plan to remove
* Remove

Inform users of alternative capabilities and workarounds, if available. 

Avoid predictions about specific releases or release dates. 

> If necessary, you can you can mention current plans to deprecate or remove a capability in a specific release.

Reviewer: Should we make it clearer that they should still use careful wording? 

Like, should we allow people to say "\<x> will be deprecated in version 4.16."? Or should we have people say something more careful like "\<x> is currently planned to be deprecated in version 4.16." or similar?

I usually push people to use the latter, but not sure what others think.

Not only because there's always a chance that the plans could change, but we're also talking about a future release that likely hasn't been released yet, so that version number could potentially change. (Example: OCP 4.0 was planned, but ended up being skipped in favor of 4.1 at the last second. Same with OCP 3.10 doesn't exist - it went straight from 3.9 to 3.11).

Reviewer 2: Taking a cue from @bergerhoffer's feedback, I've drafted an example below that could serve as inspiration.

```
[[deprecated-functionality]]
=== Deprecated Functionality

Documenting the deprecation stages of software features requires careful and precise communication. Highlight the following stages to users:

* Plan to Deprecate
* Deprecate
* Plan to Remove
* Remove

When alternatives or workarounds are available, clearly inform users. Avoid definitive statements about specific releases or dates for deprecation or removal. If it is necessary to mention a release, use provisional language to reflect the fluid nature of development plans. For example, rather than stating "<x> will be deprecated in version 4.16," use "It is currently planned for <x> to be deprecated in version 4.16." This approach acknowledges the potential for plans to change, as seen in the OpenShift Container Platform's update from the expected version 4.0 to 4.1. By using cautious wording, we set realistic expectations and maintain trust through transparent communication of any potential changes.
```

Reviewer 4: There is already the NOTE in the next section about avoiding specific release numbers.

Author: @bergerhoffer @rolfedh @sbmetz - Inspired by your comments, I've reworked this section entirely base on the suggested text from Rolfe. Can you please take another look when you get a chance? Thank you!
